Welcome back.
In this video I'm going to show you how to make our Sidebar more modular by Add in Word Press widgets
and a side bar which is essentially just one of the blocks that we've already created.
We're going to put it into Wordpress and that gives the site administrator the chance to reorganize
and change things about one sidebar.
If the wants.
So the way to get started is if you go over to the code X. And if we look for the section on which you
and themes.
So it's pretty easy to get the widgets working in our theme at the minute.
If we go over to the dashboard.
And then if we go into the appearance the squirrelly no option for the widgets so we can change up by
uddin it to all functions file.
So what should we look for this action on how to register a widget area and copy the sample code.
Oh to the functions not P HP.
And I'm going to paste this in just before the feature text function.
So paste that in there.
I don't need the page petersburg's because they're already at the start and the end of the functions
file so I can remove them and then it's just a case of changing some of the values.
So the name of our Sidebar is going to be sidebar.
Then the idae or can changes to anything we want because we use the sidebar in the blog section on this
site when I call it the sidebar underscore blog.
And then when he'd sell WordPress what goes before and after the widget.
So if you go onto these sidebar doppie HP What we basically do is replace in these sidebar modules.
So when it's there were press all the content would in these modules is surrounded by the div would
a class a sidebar module.
So let's change the div before the widget touch the class equal to sidebar.
Module.
And is a closed door.
No that's fine.
So then before and after the title.
We go back into the sidebar.
The title as a hate for or a level for head in.
So change before title to be page four.
And then Page four four after the title.
And then say that and if you go back over to the Word Press Code X and then scroll down to the hole
to display new wood areas.
We need to copy this simple code and paste it into our sidebar.
So copy this section for commissioned copy although without the page petersburg's sort of copying.
Going go to the sidebar is up the age B.
And then scroll to the very top and paces in just before all of the rest of the code.
And we give our Sidebar the idea of sidebar on this god blog.
So change it to areas where the horn right is.
So Will changes to sidebar.
Well miscall blog and the same of the bottom will changes to sidebar blog too.
And and say that.
So now if I go back in to the dush board and hit refresh you should see the woman go to the appearance.
We've now got a widgets option so select that.
Now we can see a list of all the available widgets and we can also make custom ones.
And all we need to do is just drag these over to the side bar.
And most of the widgets we are on to be the custom ones.
So they're the same as our bootstrap site.
But the first thing I want to add is a search box hunger search box insight yet so why not use a premade
widget so simply drag the search box onto the sidebar.
And then when I create the about us widget So we do that with the text box.
So drag the text over to the sidebar.
So the title for this was about.
For the content we can copy the text from the sidebar doppie HP.
So copy all the tags.
Paste them in there.
We don't need the p tags organ remove those.
And the claws and Pete's are there so save those.
And so it automatically add paragraphs so we can close that one down now.
And also the search box the go any further let's just check out the site and see it all work.
Okay.
So head over to the blog.
So it looks as old got a error in the sidebar update.
P so head over to the side about IP HP.
And it's on line 5.
That looks is a which Missen some HP opening closing times.
So at the top open up the HP.
Not much is the close inside there.
So where they start and targ the close in understand time there.
So we just need to close off and save and that should be okay now.
So refresh.
So good to know we've got the search box in the sidebar we've got the above was section show and twice.
So go into the sidebar and delete the sidebar module.
For the bolas section and save.
And now we just left with the bulls widget.
So next we'll do the archives on the categories.
So back into you were press.
Into the dashboard appearance and widgets.
So were press makes it really easy for us.
Are the archives and categories you can see on the left that the archives and categories are being created
for us so drug in the archives and give it say all.
And then save.
And do the same with the categories.
So drop that in just below.
Give it a title of categories.
And save.
And you can't delete these now from i'll footer.
So the sidebar module for archives I can go and also for the categories.
We're going to do that too.
And lastly we'll do the follow section and it's is going to be a text widget like the above was section.
So while we're in the sidebar let's copy the content.
So when it's copy the font or some icons for Facebook to Google Pinterest and YouTube.
So cut them out.
I'll catch you just delete the module now.
And say that back into the widgets drug one more text box into the sidebar.
And the title is follow us.
In the condom.
Hit save.
And then back into the blog and check it's all work.
Goods were the search the about the archives.
Categories and the social media section.
Great so of this sidebar looks pretty much the same as before.
It's now a lot more modular and it allows the logged in user or the site administrator to be able to
change that about or add new widgets.
So that's pretty much everything done for this bit.
And it's one hour a little bit as says particularly for the search box just because the search poor
needs a little bit of room and also make the search box look more like the input buttons that were used
in the boost up website.
So let's go to the style dotsie SS and then copy a comment.
They'll make a sidebar section.
So just above the mobile style home changed the comment to be cyber.
So each one of the sidebar modules has a class of sidebar module.
So we'll start with that.
So the class of sidebar module and then we'll start with the input.
So to space out when it's a margin of 10 pixels.
And also set the maximum width.
To be 100 percent.
To save and take a look.
Now is a little bit of space in around the input.
So next we need to get the idea of the class for the impossible and so go into the Developer Tools.
Then select the magnifying glass.
And click.
So we can see that we've got the idea of search submit.
Then bucholtz style sheet.
So create the idae.
In fact instead the put on the styles are duplicating the styles in the sidebar we'll just add this
up in the global section.
So for a look for the styles of the button default when we use any exact same styles for this so can
also add this on to the end.
So the idae was search submit.
And then say that will also add the hover.
So ideal search submit.
And then hover.
So say that refresh.
Another to work and so on.
But the same style for the button and hover works too.
So there you go.
That'll work.
And that's how you add custom widgets to Wordpress breastfeeds.